1.1 Motivation Currently, in the market, according to the trading model, a manufacturer will produce products, and distributors will import and sell to dealers. From there, retailers will bring products to consumers. The management of distributors andagents in practice is quite difficult. Among distributors, dealers have price differ ences, and the appearance of counterfeit goods does not guarantee product quality.
In addition, price is increase two or three times because intermediaries make prices, pickpocket" consumers. Shoppers have few choices and suggestions and can’t tellthe difference between fakes. Solving these problems helps the market become sta ble, suppliers can manage distributors, and buyers are satisfied with the quality and amount of money spent.
1.2 Objectives and scope of the graduation thesis There are a lot of e-commerce platforms on the market, especially in Vietnam.
However, price differences and counterfeit goods have not been taken care of. Most e-commerce platforms aren’t interested in distributors and dealers yet. On the side of customers, users are not concerned about the quality of products when shopping online. Distributors and agents do not have appropriate policies.
Therefore, I develop e-commerce that focuses on suppliers, distributors but still brings authentic products to the customer. My E-commerce creates an easy and convenient exchange of purchases. This e-commerce solves management issues of price increment when trading among distributors, maximum cut of intermediaries, bringing quality products to consumers. In addition, the suppliers can manage thedistributors bought their goods. This research focused on the module for the supplier in that e-commerce. The main functions of suppliers are managing their prod ucts, stock inventory, orders, and reports in this project.
1.3 Tentative solution It is necessary to create an e-commercial to help suppliers manage distributors and bring products to consumers. I generate a provider’s management software tohelp suppliers can manage their resources. Firstly, I thought about using microservice architecture. After research, I chose ASP.NET Boilerplate (ABP), an open source and well-documented application framework. This framework can help by offering a microservice-compatible, strict module architecture where your module is split into multiple layers/projects and developed independently. The system needs 1