1.1 MotivationThe 21st century is considered as the development era of information technol ogy (IT). Along with the globalization process, the explosion of smart electronic devices such as tablets and smartphones, the participation of individuals on thenetwork is increasingly active, leading to the need to share information, connect ing with friends is a necessary need to promote the birth and development of social networks. Today, with just a smartphone device connected to the internet, users can exchange and contact anyone anywhere through social networks.
Social networks develop widely and prove their attraction and role in most as pects of social life from information exchange, learning, entertainment to business and commerce. appear and take place easily through social networks. It can be said that social networks have really become close and popular, or even have become an indispensable part of today’s modern society.
According to statistics by April 2023  of NapoleonCat (a tool to measure social network indicators), the total number of Facebook social network users in Vietnam is nearly 85 million people, accounting for more than 83% of the country population, an increase of 30 million users compared to 2019 . Instagram social network with nearly 11 million people (June 2021), of which the audience is mainly young people, the age group 18-24 accounts for more than 30% of the total. In addition, it is impossible not to mention social networks with a huge number of users such as TikTok, Twitter, Telegram, etc.
With the number of users of social networks as above, Vietnam is currently ranked 7th in the number of social network users in the world. On average, young Vietnamese users spend about 7 hours per day using social networks. Photos andvideos are highly preferred content types because they are highly interactive, enter taining, and intuitive. Thus, I decided to choose the topic "Building a social media application for sharing image and video" for the thesis.
1.2 Objectives and scope of the graduation thesis The objectives and scope of the project are to design and build a social network that can run on the web platform, meeting the basic functions of users such as posting images and videos, following other users, and interacting with other users through functions such as messaging, commenting on posts, online calling, and video calling. Users can also edit personal profiles, and manage posts.
1